This is Jockel Podcast number 81.
With echoed Charles and me, Jockel Willink.
Good evening, echo.
Good evening.
November 29, 1915.
It has teamed.
The trenches are ankle deep.
Some places calf deep in mud.
The communications trenches are rushing streams of brown water.
The manor wet through, but stick the job like Britons.
And I hope for their sake that the weather lifts with the morning.
The guns have been strafing today, though up till now we have dodged the show.
It may be ours again tomorrow though.
It never knows.
This is from the diary of Captain Charlie May, the British Army Officer Commander
of B Company, 22nd Manchester Pals Battalion of the Manchester Regiment who served in World
War I.
He was married to Bessie May.
And they had one daughter who was born July 20th, 1914.
So she was a little over a year old when this journal was being written from the trenches.
And it continues December 1, 1915.
It is exciting work, sniping.
In fact, one must curb the tendency less that should become a fascination.
The second in command of the E-lance, the East Landchester Regiment, and myself put in a couple
hours this morning and had quite a bit of fun warning the baches in their trenches.
The fellow was walking across the open 2,000 yards off when I spotted him and let go.
You never saw a chap move quicker in your life.
He ran for a tree and jumped behind it and I let him have four more there.
Whether I got him or not, I don't know, but he didn't move for the next half hour.
I know because I waited so anxiously for him.
This night, or rather, one 30 this morning, I got outside the barbed wire and got lost.
Three times I had to fling myself down in the wet grass, bury my nose in it and grovel
while the machine guns went chattering over me.
It is remarkable with what speed one learns to adopt the prone position.
January 13, 1916, I long and long to see you, to class view in my arms and I long with
all my heart to see my baby.
How I love her.
What hopes I have for her what a sweet girl she will make.
February 25, 1916 woke up this morning to find the snow, pelting down and covering the ground
fully five inches deep.
Also, it was freezing hard.
Cotton, a fellow officer, came into breakfast with us.
He brought the little Bible which another soldier had taken from the body of a dead German.
On the fly leaf in a child's hand writing, the word, dad-dad.
War is very sad.
Perhaps the man may have done and been something to loath and to test, I do not know.
All I am conscious of is that somewhere in his fatherland there is a little child who
called him, dad-dad.
April 6, 1916, Fritz strafed our new trenches with heavies and searched round the support
with H.E. Shrapnel and other such obnoxious stuff.
One shell claimed three NCOs and wounded three men.
We all feel wild to get at the beast and I hope we may string them up on the wire.
I saw the killed go down the line.
It was a pitiful sight.
Poor boys, shell fire is a horrid thing.
A lad who was a sergeant of mine was the worst.
It was very, very sad.
Do those at home realize how their boys go out for them?
Never can they do enough for their soldiers?
Never can they repay the debt they owe?
Not that the men ask any reward.
But one day we'll get out of with the bayonet.
We'll take our price then for Grezzi and all the other hundreds, thousands, Grezzi's
slain as they were standing at their posts.
June 17, 1916, I do not want to die.
The thought that I may never see you or our darling baby again turns my bowels to water.
My conscience is clear that I have always tried to make life a joy for you.
But it is the thought that our babe may grow up without my knowing her and without her
knowing me.
I pray God I may do my duty for I know whatever that may entail.
You would not have it otherwise.
June 23, 1916, everything is speeding up to no end.
Ammunition by the hundred wagon load is pouring up.
It should certainly not be for lack of ammunition if we do not make a huge success of the
venture.
That one cannot help feeling a little anxious and worried.
So much depends on this great throw.
What he's talking about there in this part of the journal, it reflects the build-up for
the battle of the soul.
Although Charlie doesn't know exactly when the battle is going to commence, they're
obviously only distributing that information with people that have the need to know.
They know that a major attack is forthcoming.
That's why they've got all that ammunition piled up more than they could ever think
they could possibly need.
Back to the journal, June 28, 1916.
The moment seems very auspicious for us to strike.
Perhaps we will on Friday.
July 1, 1916.
We marched up to the assembly trench last night.
The most exciting, march imaginable.
Once all around crashed and roared till some times it was quite impossible to hear oneself
speak.
It was however a fine sight and one realized from it what gunpower really means.
Fritz, of course, strafed back and reply, causing us some un-easiness and a few casualties
before we even reached the line.
The night passed noisily and with a few more casualties.
The hunt puts a barrage on us every now and then and generally claims one or two victims.
It is a glorious morning.
We go over in two hours time.
It seems a long time to wait and I think whatever happens, we shall all feel relieved
once the line is launched.
No man's land is a tangled desert.
Unless one could see it, one cannot imagine what a terrible state of disorder it is in.
But we do not yet seem to have stopped the machine guns.
These are popping off all along our parapet as I write.
I trust they will not claim too many of our lads before the day is over.
Now I close this old diary down for the next few days since I may not take it into the line.
I will keep a record of how things go and enter it up later.
Well, that update never took place.
Charlie May was wrong about how many British soldiers would be claimed before the day
was over.
He didn't think it would claim too many but as you know the first day of the battle to
have a son July 1 turned out to be the worst day in history for the British Army.
And they suffered almost 60,000 casualties.
60,000 casualties in one day.
Like I said, those casualties included Charlie May when we were over the top.
On July 1st under the cover of Allied artillery, he was leading B company.
And he and his men fought their way across no man's land and just as they reached German
lines Charlie was hit by shell fire then killed.
And his diary was found by the man that eventually dragged him back to the trenches.
Private Arthur Bunting, who mailed the diary to Charlie's wife, mod.
Now the British have a steeped military history.
And obviously this is the kingdom that we Americans rebelled against in the Revolutionary
War and we fought them again in the war of 1812.
And we actually had a bunch of other little various disputes with them until the late 1800s
and during something called the Great Reproachment through various forces in the world.
Our political objectives were aligned and we became the staunchest of allies with Great Britain
through World War I and World War II in Korea and Vietnam and even up till now and Iraq
and Afghanistan.
I've been lucky enough to work alongside Brits on just a couple of occasions while I was
in the military and there's no doubt that they are just outstanding troops professional
in everything that they do and they leave that impression on you.
You can actually feel the pride of their military tradition.
And tonight I wanted to take a look at a book that is part of that military tradition.
And the book is called Serve to Lead.
And I'm going to start with some statements from the introduction to this version of
the book and the version of the book that I'm reading is the old version.
I think it's from 1954 or 57 originally written right after World War II and these
comments here are from a guy named Robin Matthews, a former British Army officer graduate
of the Royal Military Academy of Sanhurst, that's like the British West Point.
He went on to command his regiment the Light Dragoons, which included a tour of duty in
Iraq in 2005.
He also served with 16 aerosol brigade in Hellman Province in Afghanistan.
And here's what he has to say about this book.
Serve to Lead is a remarkable book, produced by the Royal Military Academy Sanhurst after
the Second World War.
It is as clear and concise a treatise on leadership as you will find.
It also provides a fascinating glimpse into what sets the profession of arms apart from
any other.
Serve to Lead is a anonymous with Sandhurst, placed on the bed of every officer cadet
at the beginning of their military training, somewhere between prayer book, which is what
I thought it was initially and Bible, as it has often been referred, it lays out what
is expected and what to expect.
On a quivotally, it establishes selflessness, self-discipline, integrity, and duty as the
bedrock of leadership.
Excitingly it speaks of courage and boldness as the essential differentiators upon which
events turn and to which soldiers and leaders are instinctively drawn.
There is so much to enjoy and consider on every page, but the most buggiling message of
the book concerns humility.
Leadership must be confident, but unless it is matched in equal measure by humility,
it jars at which point the lead simply fall away.
If I am to lead you first and foremost, I must be your servant.
Like any good book, the clue is in the title.
In this case, simple, seemingly contradictory, but ultimately profound, serve to lead.
That is the intro to this book.
Obviously there is a dichotomy of leadership.
He is already talking about things that we talk about all the time.
And yes, you have got to be confident, but you have got to be humble.
The title of the book is a contradiction to use a dichotomy in its own sense, right,
serve to lead.
And like I said, this book, they actually have a new one.
And I have the new one.
I went with the old one.
And the reason I went with the old one is a couple things that I am going to point out that
clearly they have changed their thoughts on.
And maybe we will end up doing a comparison contrast with the new one.
There aren't that many differences, but there certainly are some very significant differences
and we will get to those.
But this is going to kick off with a piece from the Lord Bishop of Durham.
It is the fact that some men possess an in-bred superiority which gives them a dominating
influence over their contemporaries and marks them out unmistakably for leadership.
This phenomenon is as certain as it is mysterious.
It is apparent in every association of human beings and every variety of circumstances
and on every plane of culture.
In a school among boys, in a college among the students, in a factory, shipyard or mine
among the workmen, as certainly as in the church and in the nation, there are those who
with an assured and unquestion title take the leading place and shape the general conduct.
So there is an opinion in people who ask all the time, our leaders born or made, that
one right there is, hey, leaders are born.
And that's, I always say both.
I always say there's certain leadership qualities that people are born with and some people
are born with a lot of them.
Some people are born with a lot of those qualities, some people are born with a lot less,
some people aren't born with any.
They're not going to be much of a leader.
It doesn't matter how much you train them.
You can get them better, but they're not going to be a great leader.
And obviously, some leaders don't need much training.
There's very few of those leaders that just don't, they just get it out of the gate as
just born that way.
I think it's a mixture of both.
And I think you're born with some leadership capability and the more you hone it, the
more you work on it, the better you're going to be.
Why would you think, or why do you think that is, because to be a leader like the good
strong qualities that you got to have,
they're still contradicted or counterintuitive?
They're not even counterintuitive, but you can get better at all of them.
A couple of the one that's, for instance, some people are naturally talented, or some people
are naturally articulate people.
So they're able to get their message across in simple clear concise language.
That's very important.
Now if you're born with that, you're lucky.
Good job.
You're born with that.
You're born in a particular person.
If you weren't, guess what?
You're going to have to work out it.
You're going to have to read.
You have to write, you have to listen.
You're going to have to practice speaking to people.
And you will get better at it.
So those, that's your example.
Some people just have it naturally.
But even people that have it naturally will get better at it over time.
I was always pretty comfortable speaking to people.
But obviously, even when I was in the military, I spoke to people all the time.
And when I was in a training, training situation as a young and listed seal, I was put up
in front of the classroom and speak to people.
I got better at it.
And then when I became an officer and a leader, now I was briefing people.
And so I'm doing it even more.
And then I took over the training for the West Coast seals.
And now I was briefing people all the time.
And when I was overseas, I was briefing kernels and generals.
And OK, you're going to brief a bunch of times.
You're going to get better at it.
I was already OK at it, just naturally.
But I got better at it.
And I'm still getting better at it today.
So that's the same with any of these particular talents being able to simplify things,
being able to detach those are all important leadership qualities.
You can have a certain level that you're capable at.
But the more you practice them, the better off you're going to be.
Yeah.
So it's a combination.
So how you say like, there's it's pretty rare that you get somebody who's, you know,
just has all the qualities right out the gate.
Yeah.
I can't, I've never met anybody that just just dominates and everything.
Right.
Because like, like, detaching, for example, that's not that's kind of counter to the
your natural way of doing that.
Yeah, that's true.
Most people are going to want to get in there.
Yeah.
For sure.
Now, I just thought of this example.
I've talked about them a little bit on the podcast when we had Tim Ferson,
Alden Lee Grizzard.
He was, uh, he was my assistant, Patoon Commander when I was at Sealthine 1.
And he got murdered.
It was horrible, tragic situation.
He was an involvement of murder suicide.
And, but he, he had a lot of those capabilities.
He had a lot of, he was, a very articulate.
He was in quarterback at the Navy football team.
So we had like a real good presence to him.
He spoke clearly.
He was down to earth and yet, you know, very, he could elevate himself very quickly when
he was talking to the, you know, if you need to do elevate himself, you just had a lot of
those qualities very naturally.
And guess what, he was at the Naval Academy.
He played football.
He was constantly getting in front of him, you know, getting in the hotel and telling
guys what was going to happen.
And you get good at that over time.
And part of that is, so I don't know how much of it.
You know, I didn't know him when he was a football player when he was in eighth grade.
Maybe he was stammering and trying to put his thoughts together.
But then he trained it over and over and over again.
And he got better at it.
And maybe by the time he got to me as a 23 year old Lieutenant J.G.
He was like, oh, we're going to get in the hotel.
I'll tell you guys what's going on.
And so, you know, even though it appeared to me like it was natural, probably wasn't.
It was probably a training.
He had some natural capability, but he played football in his whole life.
And that was that.
Yeah.
So in a way, you can kind of, and this may be kind of interchangeable as far as the expression,
but you know, you say natural capability, it could be that they gain it through learning
or whatever, just through their environment, you know, like as a kid.
Yeah, yeah, so playing football and then they'll bring it to the training situation and
they'll excel.
Yeah.
But I think it's got to be a little bit of both, right?
And you will get better at it.
But the more you focus on that particular skill, like some people aren't very comfortable
talking.
And you know, even they're not even comfortable talking in a conversation, right?
Oh, yeah.
And so if you end up with a kid like that, well, you got to get him out and socialize
them and get him in front of people talking all the time and that will be good for them.
If you have someone that's, if you've got a kid or, yeah, if you've got a kid or a young
leader that doesn't know when to shut up, right?
How are you going to, because sometimes leaders are like that too.
They want to hear themselves talk and they just keep talking all the time and guess what?
The more you talk, the less people listen.
So if I'm giving orders on every little thing that we've gotten to do in front of us,
eventually you're not listening to me anymore.
And when something critical comes up, you're still not listening to me because I've been
talking for the past six straight months won't shut my pie hole.
So that's a bad situation.
So how do we get that person to quiet down?
It's both.
Yeah.
All right.
So now we're going to hear from a guy named Field Marshall, William Slam.
I think Bill Slam is what they ended up calling him.
He was in World War One and World War Two wounded multiple times.
I think three times led the 14th Army in Burma World War Two and he also fought with the
Anzac, so the Australian New Zealand Army Corps at Gallipoli.
So you could say he's got a pretty good view of things.
So he's this, believe it or not, the first this book kicks off with talking about morale
and the morale of the troops.
So here we go back to the book.
Moral is a state of mind.
It is that intangible force which will move a whole group of men to give their last
ounce to achieve something without counting the cost to themselves.
That makes them feel that they are part of something greater than themselves.
Now this is interesting.
So so he's talking about the importance of morale.
Now going back to the subject we were just talking about back to the book, I learned
two that one did not need to be an orator to be effective.
Two things only were necessary.
First to know what you were talking about and second and most important to believe it yourself.
So there you go.
You don't need to be a great orator, but you got to know what you're talking about and you
got to believe it.
Those are two really good places to start.
He continues on talking about Moral.
He says a most potent factor in spreading this belief in the efficiency of an organization
is a sense of discipline.
We tried to make our discipline intelligent, but we were old fashioned army and we insisted
on outward signs.
We expected soldiers to salute and officers to salute in return.
Both in mutual confidence and respect.
I encouraged all officers to insist whenever possible and there were few places where it
was not possible on good, turnout and personal cleanliness.
It takes courage especially for a young officer to check a man met on the road for not properly
saluting or for slavantly appearance, but every time he does, it adds to his stock of moral
courage and whatever the soldier may say, he has respect for the officer who does pull him
up.
This is an interesting point.
What we're talking about here is I see Ecos, not wearing his uniform correctly, so I'm
going to go over and tighten you up.
That is, you can see where people are probably thinking, yeah, Jack will be over that
guy.
Right?
No, actually wrong.
And what I'm going to talk about here is I'm going to talk about what I call leadership
capital.
You only have so much leadership capital in your bank and you've got to decide what
as a leader you're going to spend that capital on.
And if I see you out of uniform or you're looking sloppy, I've got to decide if it's
worth me investing my leadership capital and going over and telling you that you need to
tighten it up.
Go, you need to get that.
Hey, Sergeant Charles, you need to get your uniform squared away.
You look like crap.
You're setting a bad example.
Is that what I want to invest my leadership capital on?
Now, can it be sometimes?
Yes, absolutely.
And we've talked about the many cases where that occurs.
You know, when you look at at hack worth, when hack worth showed up the Vietnam as a
battalion commander, he tightened up their uniform standards immediately.
He tightened him up immediately.
He knew he needed to invest that leadership capital.
He needed to start with the small things.
But if you're in a dearest in situation and you see somebody that maybe isn't doing
their, isn't wearing their uniform properly and you decide you're going to go tighten
them up, I'm not saying it's the wrong answer.
And as Lave Babin will tell you, it's not what you preach to what you tolerate.
And so if you tolerate the guys looking like crap, they're just going to continue going
down that hill of looking like crap.
Now to me, there's a certain point that I won't let you go past.
If you're a little out of the, out of the standard, maybe I'm going to let that one slide
a little bit, right?
But once you get to a point where you're looking like crap, well, guess what?
I am absolutely going to tighten you up.
And I'm going to explain to you why it's important.
I'm not just going to go and yell at you.
No, not happening.
So you've got to be careful how you ration your, your discipline and your leadership capital,
right?
If you just run around yelling at everyone or getting an everyone's face for every
little thing that they're doing pretty soon, you could look at that like well, pretty
soon, they'll, they'll be scared of making mistake.
But that's, that's the point.
Now you got people that are scared of making mistake.
Yeah.
Now you're cutting off their ability to, and they're desired to think freely.
So the bottom line with this balance, you've got to stay balanced in these things and
don't waste your leadership capital.
I was talking to a guy there today.
He was running a off site for his executive team.
And I talked to him and he said, man, you know what?
He was just junk.
And I said, what happened?
And he showed up the executive off site and he's in the company and he's the guy that's
running the off site.
And he gets there and he says, all right, guys, while we're here, no cell phones.
So everyone put your cell phones away.
We need to focus the strategic meeting.
We need to get this done.
So the guys put their cell phones away.
And they start the meeting.
He says, five minutes into the meeting, the CEO breaks out a cell phone, starts looking at
it.
A minute after everyone sees that, you've got half the room looking at their cell phones.
And he went, like, got kind of nuts on them.
You know, this is man, what's going on?
And people aren't even paying attention after the first hour.
He's this, you know, what's going on?
And I said to him, I said, bro, let's look at what you just, so then he said, then he
lost them.
Like the meeting just went downhill.
And I said to him, let's talk about what you did.
Because you invested your leadership capital for this important meeting on telling people
to not use their cell phones.
Did you tell him why?
He's like not really.
Did you explain to them when they would be able to use their cell phones?
No, I didn't.
So you just, now this company is a financial company.
They've got a lot of things going on.
You can imagine the CEO of a big financial company's got a lot of important calls and emails
to check and all that.
And all of a sudden he gets told, no cell phone.
What is that going to end?
What important thing is happening at my company today, where I'm not allowed to talk
on my cell phone and answer emails or look at my emails.
And I'm the guy.
So when would I be able to look at you?
You didn't tell me that.
So he invested all of his leadership capital to get people to do no cell phones.
And he spent it.
And there wasn't any left.
And so you have to be careful.
Now you have to approach it the right way.
First of all, you could say, hey, listen, guys, we're going to power through a solid
hour right now.
I'm going to ask you unless it's just critical.
Keep your cell phones put away and let's power through this.
Let's get some good conversation going right.
And in an hour, we're going to take a 20-minute break where you can catch up on, you've got
to catch up on.
And then we'll do another hour off that.
So now people understand what's happening.
And they understand why.
And by the way, if everyone's on their cell phones, we're not going to get what we need
out of this meeting.
So you've got to explain.
And you don't want to invest your leadership capital on things that don't matter.
So if you're the senior guy in a leadership position and you're focused on some little person
that's out of uniform, and that's what your focus is, that's not a good focus to have.
You should set the standard and your subordinate leadership all the way down to the front
where you've got like you and me are peers and I don't let you.
I'm not waiting for the boss to come by and tighten up uniform.
I won't let you tighten up.
I won't let you wear a crappy looking uniform.
That's what I want.
I want to have a gang mentality where we're self policing because the minute I'm from
the top doing that again.
Does this happen sometimes?
Yes.
I'm not setting out a black and white rule here.
I'm giving the broad guidance that if you're hack worth and you're taking over a battalion
where people's lives are at risks and you know that they're slack everywhere and they're
not doing a good job, you've got to go in there and tighten them up and one of the best
ways to do that is to go in there and start on the small things.
But if you've got a functioning unit that there's nothing critical happening and you're
trying to build that team into something that's a winning team and the first thing you
could do is go in and focus on some of these small things when you haven't really established
yourself, that could be problematic.
So think about those things when you're in those positions.
Alright, going back to the book, I do not say that the men of the 14th Army welcomed
to difficulties, but they grew to take fierce pride in overcoming them by determination
and ingenuity.
From start to finish, they had only two items of equipment that were never in short supply.
Their brains and their courage.
They lived up to the unofficial motto, I gave them, God helps those who help themselves.
And once again, that's the same thing that Colonel Bill Reader said.
God help yourselves.
Alright, now we're going to move on to still still talking about morale.
We're going to talk to over here from Field Marshal Bernard Montgomery.
If you don't know who that is, Monti.
What are you going to do?
The Anglo-Iris war, the Palestine conflicts that disperse uprisings and World War II.
He, you know, obviously ran the British 8th Army World War II.
So once again, we've got a person with some very solid perspective on leadership and
combat leadership, the quality of morale, back to the book in war, the moral stature of
some men increases and their characters grow stronger and more closely knit in proportion
to the discomforts and dangers they are called upon to face.
Boom.
So some guys get better.
Some guys rise to the occasion.
Back to the book, such men will occasionally perform in battle, remarkable acts of selfless
courage and daring and will endure with extraordinary fortitude and patience.
The burdens thrust upon them.
Other men, however, will under the stress of hardships or dangers surrender to fear or
fatigue and allow their characters to disintegrate.
This disintegration will usually take the form of elucining of the moral fiber which results
in timidity of action and slackness and appearance, while those who have gone to seed
will be dirty and their appearance will be sluggish and will be slobvenly in these
later cases there has been a general elucing of character due to partial surrender to fear.
So I totally agree with this.
You see in combat situations, people either get better or they get worse.
Some people just kind of cruise, right, stay in that same zone but some people get better
or they get worse, they rise the occasion or they fall.
Back to the book, the good soldier, the man with high morale has not surrendered to fear
and has maintained his personal standards.
The bad soldier, the man with low morale, has become incapable of independent action and
has to some extent shed a part of his human individuality.
That's an interesting statement that the person that's incapable of independent action.
He said he shed some of his human individuality.
Back to the book, basic factors of morale, we now must consider the factors.
What factors constitute morale of the soldier in the heat of battle?
Certain factors may be described as essential conditions without which high morale cannot
exist.
These four basic factors are one leadership, two discipline, three comradeship and four self-respect.
Fifth factor devotion to cause must exist but need not necessarily influence all the soldiers.
Finally, there are numerous contributatory factors which are of great importance but are
not essential conditions.
Starting with this first one leadership, morale is in the first place based on leadership.
Good morale is impossible without good leaders.
Human beings are fundamentally alike in that certain common characteristics apply to all
men in varying degrees.
In battle, the most important of these characteristics is fear.
All men are afraid at one time or another to a greater or lesser extent.
In moments of fear, they band together and look for guidance.
They seek for a person to give decisions they look for a leader.
The leaders power of decision results from his ability to remain calm in the crisis.
His greatest asset is the ability to act normally in abnormal conditions to continue to think
rationally when his men have ceased to think to be decisive in action when they are
paralyzed by fear.
A little bit of normal face, from Monti, act normally in abnormal conditions, remain calm.
Back to the book, the object of training must be first to select those who possess them
within them the potentialities of leadership and secondly to develop these potentialities.
This is accomplished by giving the leader responsibility.
The leader's character will develop in proportion to the responsibility with which he has been entrusted.
So there you go, he's saying the same thing that we were talking out earlier.
You have certain potentials and you've got to develop those and how do you develop them?
With people, you give people, you want to develop leaders, you give responsibility.
You don't give them responsibility, that's going to kill them, but you give them responsibility
that's going to definitely test them.
And they're going to have to step up to be able to perform.
Back to the book, the two vital attributes of a leader are A, decision, in action, and
B calmness in crisis.
Given these two attributes, he will succeed without them, he will fail.
Our great problem in pieces to select leaders, it's to select as leaders, men whose brain
will remain clear when intensely frightened.
So from Monty, you've got to remain calm.
Now he's going to talk about discipline.
The objective discipline is the conquest of fear.
There are two aspects of fear.
Fear can suddenly attack a man through his imagination.
A corpse in a ditch or a grave by the far side of the road will remind him of his position.
He'll suddenly realize that he himself is liable to be killed.
It is a function of discipline to fortify the minds that it becomes reconciled to unpleasant
sights and accepts them as normal everyday occurrences.
Fear can also creep upon a man during periods of monotony on the line.
At such time, he will have the opportunity to appreciate the dangers which beset his life.
Fear acting through his thoughts can so reduce the man's hardcore of courage that he
will become nervous and fearful.
Discipline strengthens the minds that it becomes impervious to the corroding influence of
fear.
It teaches men to confine their thought within certain definite limits.
It instills the habit of self-control.
That's pretty amazing.
It's pretty amazing assessment to think that one of the best premier tools to overcome
fear is discipline.
Back to the book, discipline implies a conception of duty.
Nothing will be accomplished in the crisis by the man without a sense of duty.
Makes sense.
Now, he's going to talk about comradeship.
Back to the book, morale cannot be good unless men come to have affection for each other.
A fellow feeling must grow up which result in a spirit of comradeship.
And army is made of human beings.
So that however much a leader may inspire his men, however perfect the discipline the morale
will be hard and unsympathetic if the warmth of comradeship has not been added.
Yeah, you've got to be the hardcore disciplinarian but you need the warmth of comradeship.
Back to the book, war, the hard business is not necessarily a grim one.
Even must laugh and joke together must enjoy each other's company and must get fun out
of even life.
Must get fun out of life even in times of danger.
So do you want to have a good time?
Yes, you do.
And the thing that makes these dangerous times more bearable is when you're having fun during
them.
And that's one of the things I don't talk a whole lot about seal training in here on the
podcast, but one of the things that you do in seal training is you're doing miserable
things called wet tired and you're having fun the whole time.
You're learning that, hey, guess what?
I consider you're in be cold and it's miserable or I can be cold and I can laugh about it.
And I can make fun of my friend the way he's shivering.
That's what makes it bearable.
And the same thing happens when you get overseas.
When you joke about really dark things, dark sense of humor, that comes out real strong when
you're overseas.
And one of my buddies who was super paranoid, I've talked about them on here before the
guys found a tube that had shipped like maps or something.
And if you pulled the tube apart real fast, it sounded like a morgue or a morgue.
Right.
So they'd get outside his tent and he was super paranoid.
We spent a little bit of time getting morgered and so he was a little on edge from that.
So they'd go outside of his tent and you can hear through the tent.
It's just a little piece of fabric and they'd go outside of his tent and they'd pull
that thing and it would sound like a morgue through.
They'd hear you hear you.
He'd freak you know what the hell are you guys doing?
No, you know at first you hear him like fall and like sit the ground and then you'd hear
the giggling of the guys outside and then you'd hear him, costing everyone out.
But yeah, but it was fun. It was fun. It was fun.
It was too far.
A little too far maybe. But everyone's having a good time and even him, you know, we'd
get done and he would be come outside. You guys are bastards and we'd laugh about it.
That's the kind of thing where you're, you got to have fun in these tough situations.
Yeah. Yeah, that makes sense.
I think that's probably why you know like nowadays like contemporary companies they
incorporate like you know, Jade's company, Frank Maldi got fuzball. Yeah, ping pong. I heard massive
noises the other day. Kind of sounded like a motor fire. It wasn't quite motor fire, but
there was something I didn't know what it was and they were they were in a nerf gun fire
fire fire. Yeah. And by the way, it was floppy. No way. They were doing it.
Yeah, there was no cover to move happening. It was just all every man from self. I was
disappointed. Yeah. But that's the, but they're like the reason right where it's, I mean,
these are, I mean, conceptually it's the same thing. Obviously, you know, it's way different.
No, actually it's way different, but it's not actually not. Right. When we're going through
tough things in a business and a company have fun with it. And when I work with companies
that are good, good companies and they're going through something tough, the ones that have
good morale, the ones that are laughing, they're the ones that do better. Yeah. Who wants to
go to work? Yeah. If you don't enjoy the people who work with you know, like why would you
want to do that? You know, one of the, uh, I hate you can call it the worst job, but I was the
atmosphere right? So every day I'm wearing a uniform, I'm sitting in a desk all day. I did it for
13 months. It was just that part of it. It's, you know, even, it's just a miserable job, right?
Luckily, first of all, the admels are great guy and I had a lot, we know, I joked around all the
time with him and his executive assistant is a guy that I would literally not, I would go to a
three weeks at a time and we wouldn't say one serious thing to each other. Just everything would be
some joke about every, all the misery that we were going through and by misery, I just mean, you know,
hours worth of meetings and traveling in all the time and being on the road and staying in
crappy hotels and flights getting, you know, bumped and canceled and being held over and the
the admels suitcase not showing up somewhere and he's supposed to go on stage. He doesn't have
a uniform with them and like that's, you know, not fun. I guess what? I had fun the whole time and
we'd be joking about, you know, I'd say, well, I guess I'm going to get take one again for the team and
we'd be just laughing. So yeah, even in these situations that aren't fun, have you got to have fun with them
and that definitely will help out your morale. And if you're in a leadership position and all you do is
just better, you don't get, get drown in the misery that you're going through every single person
that's with you is going to be going through the same thing. And so as a leader, you got to,
once again, going back to the dichotomy leadership, you got to, you got to know when, okay,
the guys are in too much stress. They're not having fun. I need to have fun. I need to start a
nerf war in the office here. So guys loosen up and then there's times where, hey,
guys are having too much fun. We got to tighten them up. Yeah. Yeah. Like, hey, guys, we got this to
do. And so you got to ride that, that line and balance it out correctly. Yeah. Yeah. It's cool.
Huh. Like, newer companies, companies, companies, notes are incorporating that element into the actual
kind of, you know, you're talking about, yes, you're right. And there's companies nowadays that do it too much
and all the stuff. Yeah. They can't get anything done. Yeah. They're messing around because everyone's playing ping pong.
Right. Everyone's in the Lego room. Yeah. Because they got rooms now. It's like, oh, you
know, and they're in think and they'll play with Legos because that relaxes your mind, I guess.
Not me when I'm around Legos. I think I'm going to step on them. Sorry. Because I got kids.
I'm stepped on Legos this night, man. So I don't like being around Legos. I got the PTSD from Lego
stepping when I was, my kids were younger. Lego. You know, because you can't ever get your son enough
Legos apparently. Correct. Because they just need everything. And when I was a kid, there was not that many
different types of Legos. You had blocks. Right. Long ones and shorter ones. Right. Nowadays,
you get Legos, but they have hands and horrors and machine guns and they got cool stuff,
but they didn't Legos anymore. They're a little toys. But they still come with a little Legos.
And they still hurt the bottom of their feet. They step on them. They are surprisingly sharp for kids.
Major choice, you know? Major sharp. All right. Going back to the book, he's the other thing
he's talking about self-respect. No man can be said to possess high morale if the quality of
self-respect is lacking. And this is something that Dick Winner has talked about too. That self-respect
and how that drove him. Soldiers must be encouraged to respect themselves at all times and under
all condition. Self-respect implies a determination to maintain personal standards of behavior.
A man who respects himself will allow neither himself to become slavily nor his quarters dirty.
Even in action, he will take care to see that his personal appearance suffers as little as possible.
It is the job of the non-commissioned officer to maintain this aspect of discipline.
It is the function of the officer to encourage and instill self-respect.
So, interesting. He breaks that down a little bit like I was talking about
if I'm the senior guy and I'm around yelling at people about how they're looking. That's not good.
That should be my subordinate leadership should be tightened and that stuff up.
Okay, here's his conclusion. Again, this is Monty-Talken. In brief,
high morale has been defined as the quality which makes men endure and show courage in times of fatigue
and danger. The cultivation of morale depends on the training of leaders and in-cultation of discipline
the encouragement of comradeship and the infusing of self-respect.
The leaders must have a belief in their cause and they must pay attention to numerous
contributory factors of considerable but secondary importance.
We live today in a scientific age but we soldiers have to remember that the raw material in which
we have to deal is men. Man is still the first weapon of war. His training is the most important
consideration in fashioning of a fighting army. All modern science is directed towards his assistance
but on his efforts depends the outcome of the battle. The morale of the soldier is the most important
single factor in war. There's Monty and that can be said for just about any organization.
What your organization is made up of is people and you hear that with businesses all the time
and our people are most important assets. That's generally going to be the case.
Here's some now we get into the leadership. The actual leadership section. The interesting
again they start off with morale. That's the first chapter now they move into leadership.
And you know clearly from what he just said morale is the most important thing in winning
battle. I don't agree. I think leadership is the most important thing. Now his number one
is number one factor in good morale is leadership. I guess you know you could see where we're
coming from a different angle but my thought is a little bit different. My thought is the most important
thing is leadership and I think that leadership covers other things just be besides the morale
of the men because now we're talking about the strategy that you're using, the tactics that you're
using, everything is covered by leadership. Including morale. Yeah so you guys are looking
in it from not opposite but just varying perspectives where he thinks leadership is part of morale.
You think I think we're all trying to leadership. Yes. I think you have identified the situation
correctly. All right here's some more from Monti on leadership. I would define leadership as
the will to dominate together with the character which inspires confidence.
All leaders got to learn to dominate the events with surround him. He must never allow these
events to get the better of him. He must allow nothing to divert him from his aim. He must always
be on top of his job and be prepared to accept responsibility. So Monti is talking about
ownership. Now what I have to caveat this with is you get these people at a single-minded
right and that they're going to dominate everything that's going on around them and they do that
from a tactical perspective, not from a strategic perspective. So for instance if you say I must never
or I must dominate the events which surround me and must allow nothing to divert me from my aim.
That can actually be problematic if it doesn't make strategic sense. Right so if I'm always
worried about dominating everything that's going on around me and the thing that's going on
around me isn't really that important. I'm wasting my time on it. So this has to this has to be
sort of offset a little bit by that dichotomy of leadership which is yes you want to dominate
what's going on but if what's going on is important you need to let it go. You need to just let it go a
little bit. All right so now we're going to hear from Jim and by the way this book what this book
serves to lead it's it's basically a bunch I should have said this in the beginning but it's
it's a bunch of small excerpts bigger than quotes some of them are just quotes which I don't
do a bunch of light cages reading quotes I do a couple I'm going to do a couple today but some
of them are like you know two three four pages of peoples of views on leadership of which I'm
pulling out some of the highlights and interestingly for the first time I was going through
some of this and I was like you know what I'm actually it was something that I've said a million
times and so I said you know what I'm not actually going to highlight this again because I've said
it over and over again now clearly with discipline I just talked about it for 47 minutes and
I probably always will when I get the opportunity but there's a lot more about this but there's
all section on discipline we'll get to all right now we're going to talk we're going to hear from
General John Hackett again World War II African campaign it's part of Market Garden which is the
big airborne operation for World War II then here's what he says I am a soldier in speaking of
leadership I do so as a soldier and when I think about it as any soldier often must I do so in the
context of battle pressures in battle are high and in battle as a consequence the problems of
leadership stand out in bold relief and that's something very similar to what I say which is
combat is like life amplified and intensified wrote that an extreme ownership and that's what I'm
talking about and because it's that way it's very easy to identify what's going on with the leadership
it's a very the the the problems of leadership stand out in bold relief he said it better than me
back to the book but while battle may be unique the problems that it exposes are not
right yes leadership problems and have been working for
seven years with other companies and people that are not going to battle and guess what the
problems that battle exposes are not unique to battle for leadership is concerned with getting people to
do things and as most keenly needed when difficulties doubts and dangers are at their greatest
in whatever sphere this is attempted the problems are essentially similar so anytime you got a team
you got trying to make and do something the problems are pretty much going to be similar
back to the book I said that leadership was concerned with getting people to do things what I meant
was getting them to do things willingly so we don't want to just park orders of people that
doesn't work doesn't work in business doesn't work on the battlefield will it work for five minutes
yes it will well I can I yell at you and get you to do something yeah sure you're on monster.com
looking for a new job and you get home back to the book a man really only gets a full response from
the many leads by something approaching complete fusion of his own identity with the whole that
he and they together form so think about that if you're in charge of something and you're a leader
you need to become that thing you need to become that team you need to become that goal
I like that one and you can see when people get possessed like you look at the modern business leaders
today those are people that you know Steve Jobs he was the obsessed with the product that he was Apple
and that's one of those things that was so beneficial. Elon Musk just like he is what he's trying to do
back to the book successful military leadership is impossible without the leader's total
engagement in the task in hand and to the group committed to his care for its discharge and what's
interesting about that was talking to your brother J. Charles of not too long ago actually was
pretty long going he and he said something to me and it was like a big revelation to him and he was
very as a very he had a good way of saying what I'm just reading about right now we were talking
about something he was going to meeting and he was going to be you know talking about something
there were some controversy about whether we're going to go and and he said that the person that
cares the most wins and that's a great statement and it's very true it's not 100% true
put the the the percentage is very high up there because if I just care about something so much
and I'm going to drive with it further than you if I care about this decision more than you do
I got a really good chance of winning really good chance of winning yeah kind of seem to like
that translates into any goal yeah any more you care about it the the more probability yeah I guess
the only the only place where it becomes problematic is if I care about something you know at 97
level 97 you care about with the the opposite decision you're also at level 97
now we got an issue now we got a problem because we're both going to think we're going to win
and we both believe that we need to win so now we got an ego scenario going on and things become
problematic and any of the where this just becomes stupid is in the when you hear people having
political I would use an air quotes on that one political debates around something yeah
you know this person totally believes 100% and this person totally cares 100% and they're
going to go nuts on each other and they don't listen to anything that the other person says
and you end up with a big disaster on your hands of nonsense yeah a lot of those
what would be political diet that's another one yeah you know I was listening I was listening to
our podcast and what we're talking about we're talking always talking about watching people in the
news and that's a classic situation where you know you got somebody on a three minute segment
and one person is you know the hardcore in this direction the other person is the hard
corner of the direction they both care they both care a lot neither one of them is going to win
they actually that that goes the next that's the next realization is that if you're going up
against person that cares as much as you do you actually have to take a back step and find another
way you have to flank them because you're not going to be able to win them by going ahead dead they
care as equal to to you so you've got to find a new solution otherwise you know what you'll do
expand all your ammunition charging machine gunnests and you'll die yeah that you don't want to do that
if you care as much as me and I don't have the same opinion I've got to flank you yeah a lot of these
probably gonna let you think you just want the argument in order to flank you too by the way yeah yeah the
again political related diet uh how to raise kids you know all these are all yeah when you
hot button yeah you call it hot things that you're not supposed to talk to or talk about around
the Thanksgiving dinner yeah they get heated real quick and you and a lot of times we're talking
about you know people or not people but we talk about how much someone cares about it right
and then you can a lot of times the things they get mixed up is how much you care about it
versus how much you care about your stance on it yeah so there's some different but it's a different
and wrap everything you got to put your ego into both those right that's the ego I don't want to admit that
I'm wrong right that's what I do that that means you care about your stance so when you make about
yourself them but if you care about the issue like if I said if I mean you were having a debate about
kettlebell workouts or something and I like dumbbells you like kettlebell but I really care about
the issue and the issue is what's the best exercises if I truly care about what the best exercise is
and not about my stance on what to pick I'm gonna care about the real answer rather whether it's my
answer or not so that's why I think like political all these other things they they have that and it is
it's just like I said it's the ego natural thing but they wind up caring more about their stance on it
then they do the actual issues you know for sure don't let that happen I'm going to let you
know for that one so yeah the 90's said not 90's but the the person who cares the most wins
doesn't apply to someone's individual stance on something it applies to you subject and it also
doesn't apply to you know a G.J.2 match because I'm not really care about winning your thing
about this the other day because that's another thing people say mental oh it's all mental and here's
an example Alex Arnold who's a rock climber who just climbed L. Capitan in Yosemite which is 3000
feet tall and if you will say oh it's all mental and and people say things you know if you want something
bad enough you do it you put me on that rock there's a some crox move like 2000 feet up 2000 feet
up that's really hard and you're smearing which is this technique and rock climbing where
you don't and I've done it before and I'm like the lowest white belt I'm not even a white belt
like like someone gave me my white belt and rock climbing I'm not like a legit but I know I've tried
things I go to Yosemite and I'll play around on the rocks and everything but I've tried this thing
it's called smearing and and you're basically just using the tread or just the bottom of your rock
climbing shoes on flat granite and you can create enough friction that you can you can move up it
and some people are really good at it I suck and you know you got to you got your hand hold
your work and you're using your feet and it's really weird balance that you have to do because
if you push too hard in the rocks you're feet slip off and if you don't push hard enough you don't
get any lift so it's this really fine like balance you've got to have and apparently there's
one move or this one series of moves on this climb that he did that you have to smear and of course
this is very natural for him but apparently he climbed that section with a rope like six or seven times
just to make sure it felt good and all that stuff here's my point even if it wasn't smearing
part even if it was just holding on to rocks right at 2000 feet I would absolutely want really
really badly to hold onto the rocks I don't have the muscular strength to do it I mean the
things that he's holding onto are smaller than with the first pad of your fingers that's what
he's holding onto the tiny and we were doing this the other day at my house remember that little
thing you actually had bed had stronger grip than me on the on the climbing board that I have at my
house but I could I could couldn't even hold on or I could hold on for five seconds and you like
had no it did you hold onto the really small one yeah that's legit I can't even hold onto that thing
so if I was 2000 feet up and I really really really really really really wanted to do it and I was
all mentally in the game guess what I'm falling to my death because I don't have the strength to
do it I don't have the physical strength and I need to build it and okay you could say and that
that's might be an acceptance okay if you really have the mental strength and will to do it then
you'll train train super hard but at that moment not gonna help me I'm falling to my death
right yeah I think that's not a metaphor but like it's like it's a romantic thing yeah yeah
you want it bad enough you can do it no actually not true I want to take the extreme version
I want to stay alive I'm 2000 feet up I want really badly to stay alive it doesn't matter
I can't get across that section I can't don't have the hand strength to do it not happening
but they're making a movie about that I can't wait to see it about Alex Honoled climbing that rock
Jimmy Chen is the famous kind of photographer guy that they went and documented the whole thing
and apparently one of the articles said that during that crux moments Alex Honoled was like hey
when we get to here just like back off with the cameras he apparently was like you know just back
off the cameras when I go through you know section 94 alpha because I think he thought he didn't
need any cameras around real close when he might fall to his death it's bad heavy yeah like
or is it because it might break his concentration or both I don't know I don't know but that's
crazy yeah have you ever been to your somebody no it's it's L capitan is 3000 feet straight up
of granted it takes people three four five days to climb up it he climbed it in three hours and
forty five minutes with a chalk bag and a pair of shoes it's ridiculous it's ridiculous it's ridiculous
yeah it's completely ridiculous 3000 feet that's very tall echo you're trying to imagine it let me
help me no I mean taller than anything you've ever seen it's taller than a skyscraper and
right it's it's huge and he climbed it with no ropes that means there's no rest that means there's
no break yeah and it means there's no mistakes you can't make a mistake if you make a mistake you die
crazy very impressive I don't even know why we're talking about Alex Honoled right now
oh because we're talking about mental will yeah whoever believes it the most yeah whoever believes
the most wins oh cares about it sorry not believes yeah it's much as I care about staying alive
I wouldn't be able to pull it off yeah I think in Jade's situation that it did make sense though
you know because you're you know no I actually say it does make sense yeah it does make sense and that's
why I was able to do a lot of stuff that I've been able to do in my career right when I was in the
military a lot of the stuff that I was able to get done I was able to get done because I cared about
it more than the reals okay yeah like you think you're gonna you know you think you're gonna
outperform my task unit I care about this so much I don't care I care about this so much you're
not gonna be able to compete with me yeah because you might think oh I'll get there at five
a clock in the morning I've been there for an hour you might think I'm gonna have my guys drill this
ten times I'm gonna have my guys drill it twenty times I care about this too much for you to win
you can't beat me you can't beat me it's not gonna happen I care about this too much
non-to-bad way non-to-selfish way I care about this I love this this is everything to me you know
you have other things going on and you got your wife and you got your family and you got this other
thing going on in your life and you got goals that you want I don't care about any of those things
this is all I care about so therefore you can't compete with me and that's pretty cool it's a
cool place to be and get overseas people are thinking about all these other things no you don't
care about anything I don't care about anything else this is the only thing I care about
hmm so it ends up getting boiled down to just not stopping right not not quitting not giving
up yeah that definitely plays a role that definitely plays a role and of course there's got to
be balance because if let's say I don't care about let's say you know my my focuses 100% my
seal task unit but then I forget about the fact that we're working with other army units
right not only think I care about as my unit well no actually I need to care about the mission
more right any care about our strategic where we're going strategically because otherwise I'm
thinking I just want to get my guys taken care if I just want to get my guys more work I just want to
get no actually I do what care what Trump's my care for the task unit was care for the mission
of what we're trying to accomplish now luckily those two things are completely aligned so there was
never any time where I was thinking oh should I do this to benefit the task unit or benefit the mission
no no if it benefit the mission it benefit the task unit if it benefit the task unit benefit the
mission period so I care about those things be here now a hard time compete with me and luckily
in Ramadi there wasn't any competition we were all working together that's what's so amazing about it
yeah was army marine corps us everyone was just working together to accomplish missions because
that's what you get when you get a nasty battlefield you get people working together all right
another piece this is a guy named general Montsell war is preeminently the art of the man
who dares to take the risk of the man who thinks deeply and clearly of the man who when accident
intervenes is not thereby cast down but changes his plans and disposition with the readiness of
a resolute and reflective mind which so far as is possible has for scene and provided against
difficulties there you go that's what we're talking about oh accident intervenes cool good
I'm not cast down change plans adapt back to the book no now no man can inspire confidence in others
who is not confident in himself and self confidence comes from knowledge a thorough understanding of
modern weapons and organization tactics and the details of administration affecting all those
under his command must therefore be acquired by every leader he must show his troops that he can
plan soundly lead resolute and deal promptly and effectively with the unexpected in addition to gain
full confidence of his troops a leader must have their personal friendship and trust
I like that again I've there was a there was a seal off so that once was briefing guys and
said if you guys if you guys if you if your people like you they then they uh
you're not doing a good job in not true he's actually saying they need your trust and
personal friendship and trust yeah once you say something like that that even that you can't push
that too far well of course yeah you've got a balance that you're not in the leadership you can't be
such close friends that you're choosing that you're putting one person as more important than the
mission or the team that's the dichotomy leadership okay now he puts together this
list which yeah we're we're feeling pretty good about this one a short list to leadership given
as follows perfect your military knowledge study the use of weapons their tactical handing
the enemy's character and methods and way to make use of ground so I don't care what job you're
in apply those right know your tools know the enemy know your competitor next study the man
on your command know them well and be known to them gain their confidence by your knowledge
energy and skill and by your interest in their welfare always be cheerful with them however you may
feel teach yourself to think out reasoned appreciations leading to clever but uncomplicated plans
quickly and unheardly so there you go keep things simple know your people get the I like
to know your people get them to know you too yeah that's important next study methods of deception
and make full use of them always aim misleading the enemy always seek surprise keep your object
clearly before you concentrate your efforts and resources at the decisive point always think well ahead
prioritize next cue work out the best methods of control in different tactical situations
practice them constantly study the situation carefully don't waste any time make up your mind and
stick to it get out your orders quickly make certain that everyone clearly knows what you intend
to be done commander's intent maintain the initiative make opportunities and seize them at once I
like that make opportunities why do I like that don't wait for them to come be prepared to take
risks but don't be foolhardy know your commander's intention and act in accordance with it don't
wait for orders in action is always wrong so there you go this is just reiterating things that
I talk about all the time never take counsel of your fears think of the enemies difficulties and how
you can take advantage of them remember that it is will power that wins oh he's he's going
off and we're not talking about carry it's not about will which will goes a long way never relax your
efforts until victory is one attend to the comfort of the troops before you think of your own
this is all just phenomenal stuff be loyal to your superiors and your subordinates express your
views clearly and frankly but when a decision has been reached fully supported and stop all criticism
never take shelter behind others when things for which you are responsible have gone wrong
take some ownership oh I like this one refrain from jealousy resentment and self-seeking
be tactful never make friction be thoughtful and consider it but maintain firm discipline
think about how bad this thing about the dichotomy of that be thoughtful and consider it
but maintain firm discipline never order troops to do what you are not prepared to do yourself
never give an unnecessary order that's a good one think about that one never give an unnecessary
order and I'll tell you why I like that one is because if you're doing a good job as a leader
orders should barely even be necessary they should barely even be necessary I talked about this
with life the other day I mean I'm sure we could go back through you know the history of
tasking of bruiser but as we we were having a conversation we were working with a company
I don't think I ever gave an order to either one of my two Patoon commanders either life or
the Delta Patoon commander I don't think I ever said this is what you're going to do that's an order
like you see in the movies right I'm sure it's been said to me before more like an
admit like not a administrative situation I don't know if anyone's ever said it to me before
like that's an order I don't know if I'm trying to think of there's been some situation where
someone said to me like hey basically like you've pushed far enough jocco stand down
like I got one of those before like hey we get it jocco you care about this a lot it's not happening
stand down I've got some I especially got those little younger like when I was a young and
listed guy the driving with an idea I just be wanting to crush it and and people would be kind of
saying hey well know we can't well and I be like no why can't why can't we why why why why won't
we do this we need to do this this is the smart thing to do you know so I think to do and I
would just eventually get like the little hey stand down we're not doing it okay you know what I'm
gonna do become an officer I want to listen to you anymore so yeah I've got I think I've got a
couple stand downs in my time stand down that's an order yeah that's an order that when you
think about or anyway when I think but it's it really does seem like a movie line yeah and one thing
is that means that you have not done a good job as a leader if I have to say that's an order
that means I haven't done a good job as a leader that means you don't understand the mission you
don't understand the intent you don't understand I haven't conveyed it to you properly and the
only way I can get you to listen is by saying that's an order yeah pulling rank yeah pulling rank
on you that's not a good not a good situation back to the book never overlook failure to carry one
out so it's never given unnecessary order never overlook failure to carry one out some people have
to chime in with their opinions on that one never overlook failure to carry one out
I'm not sure on that one what does that mean to carry one out that's what I'm saying I don't know
it says it says never order troops to do what you're not prepared to do yourself never given
unnecessary order never overlook failure to carry one out to carry out an order yeah to carry one out
never overlook failure to carry one out I'm not sure what he means by that just do
book I'm sure some people will give us some opinions on that one on the Facebook you when I release
keep fit yourself and make certain that your men do too keep your own nerves under control
and study your men's good for like when you want to comment if you're listening and you want to
comment you have an opinion on that one put it on the Facebook post so it can follow the conversation
as opposed to Twitter which is 140 characters you don't know me oh yeah it's easier to see it on
Facebook when there's a legit question or someone has some legit big feedback if you put it on the
thread for podcast number 81 when I post it that's the place to put it there in the replies
when I can like convert back on that subject without having to go through 17,000 tweets yeah
I mean go back and forth and just carry play the him but not him yeah yeah so it's all laid out on Facebook
so it's a good place to have those little conversations Twitter we have different kinds of conversations
sure last of all remember that success in word depends more than anything else on the will to win
cool again now we got Monti saying Morales the most important we got Jocco saying leadership is
the most important and you got Brigadier general Montsell saying that the will to win is the most important
I'm not gonna actually argue with either one of these guys yeah it's guys are all uh got all kinds of
experience about much more intense than mine speaking of intense experience more than mine
there's a guy a pseudonym meaning a fake name basilisk in the guy wrote something called
talks on leadership and the guy's actual name was Alfred Bern and he was a world war one
and world war two veteran then he was a military historian and he's got a little section in here
it's called being straight there's one trait in the character of a leader that above all things
really counts and it perhaps counts in war even more than in peace being straight no amount of
ability knowledge or cunning can ever make up for not being straight once those under him find out that
a commander is absolutely straight in all those dealings with them and free from the slightest trade
of self interest other than the self interest of which we are all guilty when striving for victory
of causes we believe to be right they will love him as their leader trust him work for him follow
him and should the occasion arise die for him with the fundamental ability of the British soldier
which comes to the surface when things are at their worst so being straight with your people
very important very important in fact perhaps his most important above all so now we got another
fact or that's the most important thing now I'm gonna hear a little on leadership from field
martial lord harming once again world war one and world war two veteran he also
fought in the second battle of al-amine he was a wounded lost some fingers recovered got back to
the fight so he says about leadership here there are some people who believe that leadership is
something which is inborn or which you acquire automatically at a public school but neither of those
things are true there are certain fundamental qualities which affect leadership in which depend to
very large extent on upbringing and the moral and spiritual values which you can learn which you
learn in your family and in your environment as a young man but there's no special way nor is there
any special cast or class which has the prerogative of leadership there are many forms of leadership
political parties have their leaders every big organization and industry or commerce all have their
leaders and at the other end of the scale so do dance bands and so do gangs of thieves and smugglers
there are many qualities that apply equity to every type of leader but you and I are concerned
with one particular type of leadership to my mind the highest type of all and that is leadership
on the battlefield and I believe it to be the highest type because it has to be exercised
under conditions of great difficulty and considerable danger I would like to be quite I would like
you to be quite clear about the conditions under which you will have to exercise leadership
you will frequently be tired you may also be cold and wet and hungry and thirsty you may be
dripping with sweat or you may be freezing with cold you won't know precisely what is going on
you won't know exactly where the enemy is you certainly won't know what he is going to do
or what his capabilities are of doing anything you may not know where your own people are
or what they are going to do to put it briefly you've got to be able to exercise leadership
in conditions of fatigue and fear uncertainty and ignorance and often in isolation
that is what makes it extremely difficult and that is why leadership on the battlefield calls
in my view for the highest qualities many qualities are required and leader different people
have different views about which are more important in my opinion there are five outstanding
mental and physical moral and spiritual qualities without which you cannot hope to be successful
and a good leader on the battlefield the first of those qualities is a mental and physical one and that
is fitness absolute fitness of mind and body so make sure you're getting your morning physical training
in physical fitness mental fitness next then I would say you've got to have complete integrity
you've got to be honest not only with yourselves but with the men you lead and the people with whom
you work and honesty and integrity are things that you cannot compromise with you cannot alter
if you do you will lose confidence and you will not be able to lead you must have complete integrity
so that's the same thing as being straight not after that not in any
next after that not in any order of priority but this is how I have put them down deep in my mind
there is an enduring courage pretty well everyone can be brave for a few minutes most of us can
if we steal ourselves to it take one pledge or make one decision or incur one risk but the
sort of courage you must have to lead on the battlefield isn't enduring courage and one that you
will go that will go on when other people falter one that will enable you to do what you know to be
right irrespective of the danger or the difficulty contrary often contrary to the advice of well
meaning friends so got to have courage next then you must have daring initiative
initiative means doing right away what you might if you had time think of doing a few minutes
later I like this if you wait for things to happen to you they will happen all right
and here I am quoting the words of my predecessor also spoken here they will happen to you
but they won't be what you like and they certainly won't bring you success initiative means
seeing at once and very quickly what needs to be done making up your mind to do it and then
seeing it through to the middle of bitter end so I love that one if you wait for things to happen to you
they certainly will
little bit more on will power here then you must have undonited will power the will power
is the motive power it is what enables you to make yourself fit in mind and body
to produce in you in your heart the courage the enduring courage that I spoke of
to give you the courage to do your duty and to make the sacrifice that may be called from you
it is the will power that forces you to take the initiative to make the plan to do what is required
to see it through and that will power must be undonited it must never allow itself to be overcome or
subdued perhaps the finest example living today of the power and influence for good of man
with undonited will power is our prime minister in one of the critical periods of the last war
he spoke certain words I am going to quote you now he said all the great struggles in history have
been won by superior will power resting victory in the teeth of odds or upon the narrowest of margins
it is the will power that is superior that can rest victory in the teeth of odds
that is the type of will power that has got to be developed in a leader on the battlefield
mobilize your will now he talks about some other qualities he talks about knowledge he talks
about judgment he talks about team spirit saying because you cannot get success on the battlefield
by yourself you've got to work with other people so obviously as a leader you have to have that
spirit of teamwork and closing out he says there's one other thing I would like to say to you
as british officers you will never have all you want all you need you'll be short of this or that
or the other sometimes you will be short of men other times your equipment or weapons may not be as
good as you think they ought to be normally you have as many as you would like you may be short of ammunition
you may also be short of food and water or other necessary things when these circumstances arise
as they do often throughout your service both in peace and war there's only one motto and that is to
make certain that you do the very best you can with what you got don't belgate about what you have not
got but get on and make certain you do your utmost with what you have got now to sum up what I've
tried to say this afternoon I would like to put it like this first keep fit absolutely fit then be honest
honest with yourselves and honest with those with whom you work then have courage and make it an
enduring courage next be bold be daring and when there's a choice take the bold and daring course
make the very most of what you have got and never never never give in
yes do what you can with what you've got until you really like that one yeah yeah sometimes it
starts hitting all right next there's a chapter in this book which is called discipline which makes me
very happy and again I tried to censor myself from not just doing the entire chapter obviously you
can buy this book if you want to see the whole thing there's a great point this first one is from
field marshal Earl Wavel who was in the blue wars and he was in World War I in World War II
lost his left eye in the battle of e-brays so we're talking a warrior here that was went back for
service here's what he said about discipline discipline is teaching which makes a man do something
which he would not unless he had learned that it was the right the proper and the expedient thing to do
at its best it is instilled and maintained by pride in one's self in one's unit in one's
profession only at its worst by fear of punishment so he's talking we want self discipline we
don't want in post discipline that's what he's saying you don't want I don't want you doing this
because you're scared of me if you don't do what I tell you I'm gonna beat you that's not what
I want I want you saying I'm gonna do this because I want to do it here's a little something from
Monti here and we're gonna get some disagreements going I'm gonna disagree with Monti sorry Monti
well she were here to defend yourself okay on discipline Monti the basis of training must be self
discipline cool a man must learn to be the master of himself and to keep in subjection the bad
qualities in his makeup I love that self discipline can be developed by training in such things as
conception of duty self control self respect endurance and so on we then have collective discipline
and there's no doubt that the initial training in this subject is best carried out by drill
men must be taught instinctively to obey orders whatever they are I do not believe men will
fight voluntarily for a cause without the iron bonds of discipline the best form of discipline
is subordination of self for the benefit of the community so I'm gonna make some comments on those
number one when you say that you should obey orders regardless of what they are don't agree
I don't agree with that I want my men to question my orders I want them to if I'm telling
you to do something that they don't think is smart I want them to question me I want them to come
up with then a better solution that's how we're gonna win even the moral thing too right
like to obey orders regardless oh yeah for sure I want my whole team to be hey if this is the
wrong thing to do we shouldn't be doing it yeah next the other one he says here is
he says that people won't fight for a cause without the iron bonds of discipline I don't believe that
that's true either and I think if you look at American history guys we didn't have this
stricler of course there's there's discipline of course in the military there's imposed discipline
in the military but the things that people and all soldiers have accomplished without stricting
pose discipline is they've given their lives over and over no thousands and thousands and thousands
hundreds of thousands of cases where men have given their lives not because not because I said
or because the leader said go and charge this machine gun nest that's that's that's not why they did it
they did it because they believed in the cause hmm so I don't agree with that when I think that
men will fight voluntarily for a cause without the iron bonds of discipline and you know when I think
they do it I think they do it when that causes freedom so when the cause is freedom I believe
men will fight without the bonds of discipline over them and this idea that the best form of
discipline is the subordination of self for the benefit of the community I don't actually
agree without one either I think the best form of discipline is when there is alignment in the
discipline the discipline for the team and the individual bring success and survival and freedom
and when those things are aligned that's when I think you get the finest form of discipline
now he recovers a little bit from my criticism here and of course to everyone that is
wondering why I'm sort of making fun of myself it's pretty embarrassing to be sitting here
and disagreeing with a guy like Monti so please don't take me the wrong way
just giving my opinion here and I'm in no way comparing my military knowledge
with general Montgomery and he doesn't say this the basis of all discipline is self discipline
which this is beautiful when I agree with that 100% this self discipline may come from within a person
or may be imposed upon him from without don't agree not only last a little while whatever it's
or it involves the idea of self control and self restraint that is true but there is I think it's called
situational discipline I think or what is that I could I could have the expression wrong but I think
it is situational just meaning like if you're in a certain situation you'll have you'll be really self
discipline but once you get out you're not you know like you ever you ever watched
you watch the big is a show called the biggest loser no so yeah that's a way people that are
having weight problems they go on a show they get fed certain things made to work out and he lose a
bunch of weight and then they win the program and then when they go back home and they're not around that
imposed discipline right they lose it right that's my point yeah my point is that that impose discipline
it works you have the impos in closer they're watching you what I would prefer is to have someone that
makes out change in their mindset and develops self discipline right now sometimes you can get that
from impose discipline and you realize like you get shown the freedom that discipline gives you
and then you carry on with it like a lot of people that listen to the podcast and they've done
incredible things with their lives because we weren't there to impose discipline on them but they
recognize themselves maybe they said okay you know what I'm gonna get up for the next two weeks
and get up early I'm gonna work out I'm gonna eat healthy two weeks go by they've lost a little bit
of body fat they've gained a little bit of muscle and they feel good and all of a sudden they
realize the benefits of discipline and so they change their mindset and they become more discipline
human beings yeah that's what I like yeah when I don't like is it all run a boot camp on you
and yell at you and scream in person I think people want me to yell and scream I get that I think
once or twice a day someone will say you need to make an alarm clock where you yell and tell us to tell
me to get out of bed yeah and I say it gets psychological warfare but I'm not gonna yell in
psychological warfare because yelling isn't an effective tool compared to actually speaking to someone
and letting them understand why it's important yeah that's the preferred tool okay usually
do you got to yell at people occasionally yes you do occasionally not very often though yeah
but yeah yeah right now with that situational discipline because even I think about what's worse
somebody yelling at you or someone whispering at you it's actually worse isn't it?
somebody's in a lot of ways yeah to me it's worse sure yelling and screaming it doesn't
no and it really doesn't really matter what they're saying either if you choose yelling or
whispering because like you know even if they're telling you a normal thing like hey um here
this is what I want from the store I want avocados tomatoes and you know some wine but what if I
whisper it to you hey joker thank you my fruit me out actually yeah yeah yeah so it didn't
sure about that example yeah except no no you get that that's the point it doesn't really matter
what they're saying whispering versus you oh yeah definitely has a different psychological
fact for sure that doesn't really freaks me out you be in a joker when you pick up a bottle of wine
you think no actually I can I'm leaving yeah the wine can it makes it extra awkward for sure
alright so now we get into another part on discipline right here and this is Sir John Furtiske
and what you pay attention to this one because we start going sideways I haven't my mind rather
those excellent but generally unthaking persons who shrink with horror from the idea of a man's
abdicating his civil rights what they say a man must obey even an unjust command under pain it
may be of death it is monstrous for purposes of civil life it might be monstrous but not for the
purposes in of implicit obedience which is the thing that matters in the army let there be justices
far as possible by all means but as a general principle it is better for an army that an in
justice should be done than that an order should be disobeyed this however is an argument that
cannot appeal to our imaginary objecter because he has read no military history so that's just
very disturbing this whole thing and it's really doesn't comply with anything that I say
which is I want you to question orders and if they're not good orders you shouldn't obey him
and he's saying no no no it's better to do something unjust as long as you're obeying orders
and I get a little bit of research about john for the skew and you know obviously I don't agree
with this and actually in the new version of the book the the guy that writes the forward to the
new version of this specifically calls out john for the skew and says we removed him he's
gone from the book and what I found out about him was yes he was in the army he was a major in the
army but I don't think he was in any combat and what I do know is that he was the royal librarian
from 1905 until 1926 and he died in 1902 so he didn't go to World War I really all these other
guys are World War I World War II veterans he was the the royal librarian and it's interesting
when he says because he has read no military he doesn't said because he's never been in combat before
he says he's read that cup the person that would object this is never read military history
well actually yeah he's going with a theory yeah he's going with a theory yeah and and if you want to
take this and stretch it out more broadly this attitude you know a hate World War I hate World War I
because it was so based on obedience and you are going to charge we're going to charge this
trench all 7,000 of us are going to charge tomorrow morning at 0630 where to go over the top
where to get mode down my machine guns and then then people are going to fall us and do the same thing
and that they the guys were so obedient and brave and just selfless to do that
but this attitude is what made that war so devastating because no one said hey wait a second
this doesn't seem smart to me I just watched you know a two three four battalions are two
three four regiments get mode down and now you're telling me I'm going to do the same thing tomorrow
with my men no I want you to question my orders I want you to say no if I'm making you do
something that doesn't make sense I want you to say no and if I can't explain it to you in a
logical way then I should rethink what I'm saying to you so Mr. John Fordiskew
we're going to have to say that we've kind of changed our opinion on on obedience and there are
more important things than obedience in a team in a military team and in the business world
here's another piece from the Sconeback General Williams slim any army without discipline is no
more than a mob alternating between frightened sheep and beasts of prey discipline as the British
soldiers demonstrated in peace and war is the old Christian virtue of unselfishness of standing by
your neighbor your comrade it is the sacrifice of a man's comfort inclination safety even life for others
for something greater than himself it is the refusal to be the weak link in the chain that snaps
under under strain then this is a great little story here one paragraph back to the book once
from the safety of a well dug command post I looked down on a battery vault artillery in action
in the African bush it was firing at five rounds per gun per minute and idly I timed the nearest gun
in that area the enemy unfortunately had complete local air supremacy and guns unless engaged in
some vital task were ordered to remain silent whenever hostile aircraft appeared
gradually dominating all other sounds came the dull drone of bombers flying low but the guns went
on firing five rounds per gun per minute for they were supporting an infantry attack
cover move by the way the first stick of bombs fell around the gun I was watching
some of its crew were hit the dry brush roared into flame which spread instantly to the camouflage
nets over the gun it vanished from my sight in smoke and flame yet from the very midst of that
inferno at the exact intervals came the flash and thud of the firing gun five rounds per minute
per gun never a falter never a second out no weak link there the discipline held
that's pretty awesome
sections here talking about duty and service and we're going to first start with Colonel George
Henderson a British officer who fought in Egypt and at the Battle of Kassassin and
he fought in the Boer Wars as well and he talks about waterloo here we go back to the book
no incidents more familiar in our military history than the stubborn resistance of the British
line at Waterloo through the long hours of the mid-summer day silent and immovable squares and
squadrons stood in the trampled corn harassed by an almost incestant fire of cannon and musketry
to which they were forbidden to make reply not a moment but heard some cry of agony not a moment
but some comrade fell headlong into the furrows yet as bullets of the skirmishers hailed around them
and the great shot tore through the tight packed ranks the word was passed quietly
closing on the center men and as the sun neared at setting the regiments still shoulder to shoulder
stood fast upon the ground they had held at noon the spectacle is characteristic
in good fortune and in ill it is rare indeed that a British regiment does not hold together
and this indestructible cohesion best of all qualities that an armed body can possess is based
not merely on hereditary resolution but on mutual confidence and mutual respect the man and the
ranks has implicit faith in his officer the officer and almost unbounded belief in the valor
and discipline of his men and that I've talked about this and people want to know what makes
the seal teams do well the thing that makes the seal teams do well is the bond that holds
them together and that bond is so strong that it's unbreakable and that's why seals do well in combat
because we have a bond that is unbreakable stronger than anything that's going to get thrown at us
the brotherhood is going to stand
and I'm going to close this book out with two more quotes and speaking of water
this one is from Wellington and this is a very simple quote he said my rule was always to do
the business of the day in the day and I I was reading this book the other day and I actually
posted something about it but I I I didn't realize I was thinking about this but we have a
of saying in the seal teams plan your dive and dive your plan is this thing so when you're
when you're doing a combat swimmer attack which is when you're on a re-breather and you're diving
underwater and when if you've never dove before if you don't understand this it's very hard to
comprehend what combat swimmer is like but I'll give you a real quick brief when you're doing a
combat dive on a re-breather you basically can't see anything it's nighttime you're down at
10 12 15 feet underwater it's black you can't see anything there's no like fish swimming around
there's no sea life to look at there's no coral reef it's black you can't see anything
the only thing you can actually see is something called an attack board which an attack board
sounds really cool but let me tell you what it is it's a piece of plastic used to be wood
that has on it a depth gauge a compass and a watch to time and so you put little tiny
chemlights little glowing chemlights and you actually tape them up so that they're barely
emitting any light at all and you put one by the stopwatch one by the compass and one by the depth
gauge and when you're underwater so you have those things they're basically strapped onto this board
that you hold I don't know it's like like the about the size of a piece of paper right
of eight and a half by 11 piece paper that's about how big this board is and on it you've got
your depth gauge your compass and your stopwatch and you can barely see them they're glowing very
faintly and when you're underwater that's all you can see it is just that you can't see anything
else occasionally you'll get like some weird abstract light from the moon or something but
even that to rare because you're down underwater and if you've ever been in water with low visibility
sometimes that sometimes it's actually hard to see the attack board that's too feet in front
of your face so then what you're doing is you're looking at that compass you're looking at that
depth gauge and you're looking at the stopwatch and you have pre-planned legs that you're going on
you're going to go this long this this bearing this long this depth for this time and when I say
it's so you're kicking looking at this board for an hour and 17 minutes then you're going to make
a 90 degree turn and you're going to go for another 48 minutes and then you're going to make a
right turn for 12 minutes and you're going to hit your target then you're going to turn around
do some other route back out as long as you can stay underwater you stand a water that eventually
run out of oxygen you come to the surface and you swim the rest of the way to your extract
any visions of the glory and the the fun of being a seal this is it's not it's work
and it's hard work and you have to concentrate the whole time and you got to make sure you don't go to
shallow or too deep if you go too shallow you'll be seeing if you go to deep your go off the
dive tables that you're allowed to be on oxygen for so you got to focus the whole time and by the
way you're in a spare and your buddy that's with you he's even more miserable than you are because
he has no idea what's going on he's just trying to keep up with you because for some reason the
way you dive the way you put your body when you have the attack board you can swim a little bit
faster than the guy that's looking around and making sure that you're not going to hit anything
and make sure not so there's only one attack board there there's a one attack board for
it prepare okay sometimes we would make to make a smaller attack board just because it was
so much more efficient to fly with them but you can't fly if you're the buddy you can't be
just looking at the attack board you have to look around attack board the attack board you can't
that's what we call the attack board so with all that the reason I'm telling you all this is that
when you're underwater it's really easy to get confused and turned around and sometimes you go
over big pieces of metal that are in the water and your compass starts to like wander around
and you can't communicate with your buddy man that's what it sounds like you've got so
we know we have squeeze signals and sometimes we carry grease pens to write but it's never there's
no real effective way to communicate underwater so you're just in this dark just cold
blind situation for three two three four hours at a time and the saying is that we have
is plan your dive and dive your plan because if you and I go underwater and then we start trying to
adjust things while we're underwater and we just we think we're going to do something different once
we go first of all you and I're going to be thinking two different things and it's going to be a disaster
so we plan our dive and dive our plan and that's reminded me of this statement do the business of
the day in the day right get done what you say you're going to get done do it and how simple is that
and it's like dive your plan and what I said the other day I said plan what you're going to do
and then do what you plan that's real simple and and I think about how far you're going to
think of where you will be in two weeks if every day you plan what you're going to do and then you do
what you plan it's amazing yeah it seems to say that that's what we're talking about a few weeks ago
where it's like distractions that's the thing you know I've seen there's like just industries of
distractions yeah for sure you never wake up I was explaining to my eight-year-old daughter of the
other day that they designed because she was playing a game on iPad and I said oh what are you learning
from that and she said oh what do you mean I said oh are you learning anything from that
and she said well you have to get these rings and I said oh so you're not learning anything from that
and she said I don't I said you know what they do they make that game to make you want to play it more
or there's no there's no end to the game to play the way they just want you to play that
game keep clicking on that that's yeah there look you know of course I'm just being a total jerk I'm
like yeah look at how it works look at you look at you you look at you you look at you holding on to
this thing and she doesn't fall for this anymore when she was younger I used to go up and
and press her head as if her head was getting softer and I look at her like oh man how long
have you been on this for you said I don't know and it's a I think if you stop now your brain might
harden back up eventually do the same thing with her muscles like you're eating like chips or
some way too many chips like you're muscle getting like all soft right now yeah she's young
just for so it works but they do they plan these things so they addicted yeah
addicted those iPad ones there's no and well everything is designed right right now you
you talk about the Facebook app that shows the little thing that shows oh yeah like yeah
you're gonna mess it up and this might be the message that I've been waiting for right variable
reward it might not be so that's the thing that's if you know guaranteed it what it's going to
be consistently it's less addictive it's called variable reward yeah that's what I'm saying but
you the everyone in their mind is thinking this might be yeah this might be the big one exactly I'm
getting contacted by by tenacious D they saw my tweet they're getting back at me they're going to
come on the podcast we're attending it's today's the jack black and Kyle gas no it's a movie it's a band
from a movie they have been in a movie yes and they have a jack black jack black
actor no that's a black and not a new musician okay got you school of rock that's a great show
hell that's not a movie that's jack black no no he isn't active like I said in a
talk to be here remember who got so why do we just talk about oh yeah because I think in
all this might be the tweet that I was waiting for from tenacious D sure so I got to check my
twitter 47 times a minute yeah no not happening you can you get you don't have a tweet from
tenacious D that's not there they didn't tweet you yeah so don't check your twitter going do
something productive yeah but so and that's when you're already distracted so basically the
point was you know do your plan your day or do you know and do the plan right so because no one
plan your day and do what you plan yeah that's it so you know and plans to what's really jacked up
is if you actually took what you did in a day and you wrote it down and planned it I bet you could
get it done in so much less time like right now I've got a lot of stuff going on right now
and I'm doing things that normally take me two hours I'm doing in 46 minutes same quality by the way
did it's getting after it right but you got to put a little suspense date on something and say
let's do here you got to get it done and then you just sit down and make it happen yeah that's
what you need to do oh it's it's one of those simple but I need these easy things but this is why
so you would you put in a way you put these kind of parameters on what you're gonna do and if like
I if okay I'm making a plan and I'm sticking to the plan right that's what I'm doing so I plan to
do XYZX you know all these things yep and if so basically right when you say okay here's the
plan you outline it if it's not in the plan you just don't do it it's so yeah so distractions no
one plans like hey tomorrow I'm gonna just eat like crap tomorrow that's the plan that's never the plan
you know but if you don't have any plan or nothing sure you allow those things to come in so
if you're like okay tomorrow and you're not gonna plan the whole day you're not gonna plan every
meal you're not gonna if you did you'd be real effective yeah if you stay on locked right
so if you get the meal prep the night before like when you go through those phases where you're
cooking seven chicken breasts and you're just red you got everything laid out one day too so yeah
well there you go yeah really people do that yeah for those degrees and it works yes sir yeah
exactly right so and isn't realistic and really when you think about it kind of is if you're committed
to it well what's crazy is is it takes more work upfront how long does it take to prepare all your
meals for the week and by the way I don't do this yeah but how long I've done it before how long
to take prepare with meals it takes you two hours two hours and 20 minutes let's say
amount of time by the way you get done preparing those and you save time in the week right
because now you're not sitting around just redepointing your pots and pans redepointing your stove
setting that to all that other stuff you actually are gonna save time if you plan your day
yeah and then you do your plan yeah and think about just if you use that meal prep example where okay you
don't typically we don't plan our every meal for a week typically just don't do that but when you do
the meal prep planning situation you're saying we meaning human beings in general where everybody
yeah that typical person so that's a good example so when you do that now boom that your meals
an element of your life that typically isn't quote unquote planned is now planned so now those
parameters are set so anything outside of those parameters do you just don't really think about
as much you know and one they kind of enter you it's real obvious like hey that's not part of this
plan what the hell you know it's like it's more of a life but if you don't plan it they come in it's kind
like whatever there's no parameters there anyway in my head so that goes for everything you do so just
like how you're saying yeah have a lot of stuff so you plan okay I'm gonna do this here do this now
do this at this time finish it by this time all this stuff those parameters are set so the
distractions have a way harder time to get in so in everyday life you can make some ambiguous goal hey I
want to eat better no plan by the way just it's an ambiguous goal there's no parameters on there
so you take one missed step you you know you were at the stop light for longer than you expected
now you're late for this now I'm pressed for a time there's the McDonald's right and it it'll just
sneak right in but if you got those parameters then you'll be able to make Donald's nope
not part of my plan right now yeah my plan I got to you know I got to execute yeah and another thing
I if you're gonna plan your day you should actually plan to have time in there that has nothing
in it right so you should you should plan to have a half an hour where you're you're gonna
address problems right okay so that way of problems because they're gonna come up
yeah you gotta you gotta have your your free time and by free I mean free to go make other things
happen and just and make things good but what you shouldn't do is say because I'll tell you there's
some things that I have a really hard time like with the podcast I'll keep preparing the podcast
I'll just go I'm just feeling the time I know I go beyond that because there's another story
that ties into something else and I'm gonna go pull out another book and by the way I got
to run the out of time to get it from Amazon so I'm gonna go to the library you know what I mean
it's just you go down where I could prepare for a podcast forever and not be ready for it and so
I have to put myself in check and say okay draw the line on this level of depth on this thing
now I might make a footnote and I've got a cool category now on my computer that's you know
tangents where I what I opened a tangent and I didn't close it on the podcast so now we're gonna
be able to enter them at a different time when when time allows because I can get focused on that
one subject so that's pretty cool yeah but it takes discipline to do that because otherwise I would
just go down every rabbit I could open up and you take a book like this and there's so many
rabbit holes in there it's almost impossible to stay out of them it gets kind of ridiculous
yeah in a way so my point is playing playing your day and then execute your plan if you do
that it's gonna make a huge difference in your life and let's go look up you look up and
a month two months three months the amount of stuff that you've gotten done is ridiculous
and I'll tell you one of the ways that I do do that myself as I just pass myself with that I
would say I'm gonna do things and you have to have to do them yeah they are. If let's say with this
podcast good example we do this podcast once a week we've held the line really well on that
if we didn't if we said you know what let's just put the podcast out when we put it out right
if that was the mindset we had from the beginning we would probably I'm gonna guess that we would
have less than half of the podcasts would have been put out that's my guess because we were to
said you know what hey I got a train this week and I'm gonna miss that and I haven't read the
book that I was gonna read so because right now bro oh I've got 15 minutes that little half hour
of my schedule or I have nothing guess what I'm doing in that half hour I'm doing 22 minutes worth
of reading of a book that's coming up yeah that's what I'm doing if we didn't have the
discipline structure in place that probably wouldn't be happening yeah that probably wouldn't be
we'd be going oh you know what little time with bi-Hey bro yeah let's let's let's let's give this
week a visit so much easier yeah yeah you know what I was gonna go going hang out today and
only want to do this today no we're doing it yeah we we signed up for it yep totally now
could it get to a point where said you know what every two weeks we've mentioned that before
people didn't like that idea yeah you know why because I like that discipline yeah why would
you know why because I'm basically I'm basically confining myself that doing something productive
as opposed to watching YouTube videos right about cats because there's some good YouTube videos
right there's some good YouTube videos but there's also a lot of them are not good
and you're not getting anything out of them yeah and man the ones that they rack up for you
when you've just got done watching one yeah the ones that they rack up for you or every single one
of them what do they rack up I think they rack up for on top and for on bottom when you're
little screen yeah and every one of them is like a clickbait right every one of them is a clickbait
it's crazy yeah it's they do that obviously yeah because it it has a lot to do with
everything that you've you've won for sure so yeah it's gonna be it's the next video is always
just like it's a 90% relevant to what you specifically want right there and that is why
that is why you got to get angry at though you know you know if you have that uh you know how you
have that that way that you ever came your anger management right by but you read that it was like
you you had low self esteem that's why you're getting mad well when you get that when you get
that next rack of YouTube videos staring at you you should be getting pissed because you know what they're
trying to do you're trying to get you to try to take your time away from you yeah and by the way
they're making money from you you click that next thing you they're making their making money from
what you're doing and so they've they've set this system up to make you click that thing yeah
so you're a mark is what you know you're a mark you're a marker look at you falling for it
everything you have yeah that's how I click drinking too by the way that is legit like oh I'm falling
for a trick that my brain is playing on me I'm falling for that trick I'm falling for that trick
that and like I said it's hard too because it's mixed in with positive stuff on YouTube there's
a really good quality stuff on YouTube there's some great knowledge you can gain from YouTube for sure
and if you're good at justifying things yeah yeah that's true too it's a really scary but my point
is I don't want to sit here and bag on YouTube because it's an incredible source of information
if you keep it informational but it's real easy to get sideways on that and they somehow know
they can attach like watching a street fight too because I watch street fights or I watch a
you know a UFC fighter I'll watch a clip or I'll watch a submission they know how to drag you in
to like those clickbait titles of the guy fighting in the kangaroo yeah man versus kangaroo
unbelievable right and of course you're thinking yourself okay well what would I do if I
did fight a kangaroo yeah I live in America and I'm not fighting in the kangaroo but somehow I
got to click on that video you see what else such garbage so good job YouTube and I'm not going to be
a soccer over here no don't be alarmed give yourself a limit yeah seeing and that goes back to
give yourself like a click limit on those things yeah or just set your plan right give yourself
those parameters but you won't it's it even me thinking about it right now it really after you
can explain to there it really puts it into perspective and all the things you ever I mean you're
different than I think I think a lot of people where sometimes people only make plans if like
they have important stuff something that's important I got work stuff right I got this to do
this there's like 10 things on the list which actually seems like a pretty big to do this if you think
10 in one day you know how many things you do in a day that you can get distracted from a lot of them yeah
more than 10 it's like a lot and that goes everything everything from like the sweat the day you wake
up or not the day but the time you wake up what you eat every single time by the way
oh the TV watcher don't watch I get every second of the day if it had a parameter on it
and you'd be just laser focus on all your goals instead of these ambiguous who or what
yeah lose weight or I want to I need to I don't know XYZ more yeah and I'll tell you
nothing the plan doesn't take that much time to put together yeah and how you say it's it'll
end up saving you time oh for sure it'll end up in one way another 10 minutes that you spend
planning the next day we'll save you four hours yeah you can usually get done everything you have to
get done in like half the time yeah half the time it's crazy and it's weird too because I don't
I mean there's a busy people out there I don't want to make it sound like there's some
some people that are really busy yeah but I get the single mom she's got two three kids
she's got two three jobs yeah she doesn't you know what she's listening this conversation going
yeah no kid yeah no kid she even wants youtube yeah she's in the game 24 seven yeah well
not she's in the game 20 because she's worth she's sleeping for her right 20 yeah she's keeping it
together yeah and when you say there's busy yeah there are two things to that yeah there are busy
people you know that's how those people get those like the single moms or the single dads
they get the kind of what I just said they are in a situation they have no choice in it
right after yeah that's not no choice they get after they're like all I'm going to get this
done they got to their friend they're looking at their kid they're looking at their three-year-old
kid that that three-year-old kid has nothing without that mom getting on the grind and going to
the restaurant yeah and working as a waitress or whatever or she's working her job whatever she's
doing yeah just putting it together no is exactly Tuesday three weeks from now I'm at four
forty six she knows where she's gonna be yeah she knows exactly where yeah I mean I don't
come on you know compared to the average person we don't know and then
compared to the average where you definitely know but you're not even like a hundred percent
sure which I've been doing in an hour because you know cruising could interlude at any time
and could might just be cruising is a very ambiguous activity but then go to the other side of
the spectrum of busy people I mean they're busy because they don't plan you know that's
definitely true and yeah I'm so busy all the time meanwhile no no productivity yeah or
or very little limited limited true plan your day execute you plan all right last
little quote from this this is Frederick the Great the Battle of Colin in 1757 and there were some
troops that were a red a couple different versions again speaking of rabbit holes or
start going down these rabbit holes I read two different versions of this there was either
troops that were hesitating to attack or there were troops that were actually retreating
and to these troops Frederick the Great said dogs would you live forever
and another way that was translated was you cursive rascals would you live forever
and was he saying this to you saying that to his own troops right okay that are
leaving either either hesitating to attack or they're or they're retreating and he said dogs
yeah kind of barbarians yeah no what would you live forever no is that what you're looking for
to live forever yeah no you shouldn't be and you know I I think that's a good way to wrap up
that book because like we said those two quotes always do the business of the day in the day
so plan what you do and do what you plan and dogs you cursive rascals would you live forever
let me answer that for you know you won't and we're here talking about a book we talk about a
book today and we talk about leadership and that's awesome but you got to start by leading
yourself by doing what you say you will do that's integrity personal integrity when you say
that you're going to do something that they talked about being straight today it's talking
about personal integrity that starts with yourself by doing what you actually say you are going to
do by not hesitating and waiting got to lead yourself so get moving don't wait do what you plan
and do it today because you don't get to live forever and the clock is ticking and I think that's
all I've got for tonight and echo since we are not hesitating right now if you could without
hesitation please explain to people how they might be able to support this podcast if they want to
sure of course because we don't want to live forever actually Conan the Barbarian didn't say that
he didn't say he didn't say much in Conan the Barbarian that's a few lines but not that much
his girlfriend girl that ends up being his girlfriend then she dies later but whatever oh she says
when they hesitated or when they're about to do something nuts she says do you want to live forever
than they just charge okay well there you go she thinks exactly yeah that's the exact usage
anyway speaking of not hesitating so kettlebells I'm talking about on it but this is kind of
this relevant reminded me I kind of meant to it earlier before I started recording so I hear good
things right kettlebells and I'm a little familiar I'll incorporate them here and there but
you know I just hear more and more so I'm like hey I'm gonna make this a big part of the
you know the routine the program yeah you do kettlebells obviously yes how much dumbbell stuff
do you like dumbbell I actually don't use a lot of dumbbells and there you have a big dumbbell guy
yeah like even like bench right yeah I don't know man how well is that some like bench like
people will say hey how much can you bench yeah I don't know man not enough that's my answer
so long time well you know I back to the kettlebell so starting kettlebells
but I got and you know you learn the tip be careful with kettlebells if you're doing the kettlebells
yeah you know how they see yeah start off light this I'd say with kettlebells more so
than you because when you throw a kettle that thing it's not like a dumbbell is like you grab a
dumbbell it has a perfect handle each side of the dumbbells perfectly balanced the same exact
with but kettlebell has a handle then it's on the thing it'll flip around it'll break your
loop right you can break your hand or when you're swinging them you know the one that you go
I don't know all the terms sorry but the one you grab it with the two hands it's not swing yeah
kettlebell the basic one yeah you know the boss wait between your legs yep but I'm like swinging
it and I'm like oh what if this what if my balance was off or I don't know whatever and the kettlebell
hit my chin you being a lot of pain bro it can break your chin if you have your chin you know even
if you had like a 62 pound kettlebell in break your chin be careful with that anyway so to make things
actually technically they're not what I got the on it ones the the wear wolf you know and the
champion of that and you think when you compare them to the regular kettlebells um they're the
kettlebells around right the regular ones so you think oh you know the design and ones with the
wear wolf they might be kind of awkward because they're not like perfectly uniform but guess what
the balance when they make them yeah so they're just as safe but
so we're gonna be careful this I'm I'm explaining the new emergence of kettlebells in my work out yeah
and you like them I like them a lot and the point is don't hesitate right because you know how you
need to do more kettlebells and big and big U.S. goal that's what it is no parameters
but I was like you know what today's the day I'm gonna do I'm gonna this is gonna be the workout
this is so my workout was you know you want numbers I'll keep you numbers so what I did
met con kettlebells the wear wolf so those are 62 pounds each and two the double boom so
it's like a D I don't know if this is an actual kettlebell official movement I think it is
you go it's like a kettlebell swing two of them outside of the hips narrow stance up to
clean okay you clean it right and then press it right and then back down press
squat boom boom okay and press yes so I do five reps and then five burpees
walk in a circle 35 second yeah five reps again so I do that six times
to click I don't know eight minutes eight and that was a mess I was the same as my other
macumbo with the kettlebells and this kind of the squat probably it's weird I used to do that
with a bar it's there's a lot of little muscles in there yeah that's what makes kettlebell
is good is that there's unstable there less stable than a barbell yeah and they move awkwardly
yeah so you have to use more energy and more strength to keep them under control yeah so
it's working some muscles that you're not used to most likely yeah and you're it's
it's interesting because you're using like you can get into this kind of it's not weird
but it this flow of like you know like when it swings down it's not like oh it doesn't jerk you
down it will if you're not ready for it but if you kind of know after you get used to it it just
flows just like this almost know impact yep kettlebells are good yeah so do that anyway
where would you get your kettlebells from I get my kettlebells from on it I only get the
coins actually afterwards and I had a picture I was gonna post it online too but I was like
you were feeling it was less about that at that point you know but one I again the where
will forms so and Joe Rogan's on one of the videos on there he kind of mentions is he's like I
like this one because it's like I think it's like the gorilla or something like that he's like
it looks at you and it's like it wants to he says you know he says that the gorilla looks like he
wants to bite your dick off that's what he says something along this line but he has a good point like
those kettlebells when you're like man I really don't want to do this and then they're just looking at
you you know and you're like tank you walk away you come back and you look at it and it's still
looking at you with the same expression because it's you know kettlebells because it's an
ain't even an object you know because you get into the workout you know you know especially like
how you you like it's a challenge every time you do that all right on it support right I guess
on it dot com slash jocco ten on it get kettlebells
alpha brain strong bone yeah krill oil big time shrimp tech yeah so with the krill oil
mine didn't come in yet I slack didn't want to oil it didn't come in yet and I'm kind of it's weird
I'm slowly started I'm not messed up I'm not but I'm slowly starting to yeah I think so
actually you don't want to get out of your system completely that's not good not yeah they
got to incorporate into it yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah in my case it took I think five one I
start to be like all you know I think it comes in today nonetheless krill oil the best krill oil
straight up is from on it so yeah on it dot com slash jocco ten percent off if you want that
ten percent off go slash jocco and yeah it's a good way to support yourself podcast and
get after it more efficiently also if you want to check out this book serve to lead
we'll have a poster on the website uh it takes you to Amazon grab these books from there you click
to the website that supports podcast really good whether you buy these books any book we didn't
who saw she last week no we did book a five ring last week and we saw she the novel will be covered
in podcast one hundred yeah if you I will you're gonna talk about the whole book it's a novel
so it's gonna be spoilers so if you want to listen to that podcast you got to read that book now
it's a thousand pages long it's freaking long yeah so get the book now so that you can
get the satisfaction of the book because it has the most epic ending it's one of the most epic
endings of any books yeah and it's on the jocco podcast dot com website books jocco
podcasts books they're all on there also the one you mentioned it today one called mine games
the book that I read oh you put that on there oh didn't yet the the author is Michael Powell
and here's the thing it's not like it's not like a typical book where it's like talks about
anger management it's not that it's it's literally like there's little games like mine brain
exercises in there you know it's just everything and they're really short chapters they're just
little things and that one chapter happened to be about dealing with anger anyway Michael Powell
is the author on now does it gonna all put it on there though legit yeah yeah anyway Amazon
clicked through basically you click through there boom takes Amazon it's a little support thing
you know small action big reaction or if you do other shopping under duct tape duct tape if you will
so yeah any shopping really but you know these books that's a good that's a real relevant one I think
that people you know they do want to grab these books and pull them there on there offer also
subscribe to the podcast if you haven't already iTunes Stitcher Google Play which everyone you
prefer I think iTunes is a most popular but I see significant references to Google Play
in general society you know also a lot of them it's a Stitcher yeah you know how like a lot of
them people they don't want to go mainstream you know it's like like they like keep it old school
yeah you're around yeah you know it makes sense you know what's the old saying don't go with
their herd or back less traveled you know one of the same same deal same deal same deal so I get it
Google Play up but good news is we're on all of them and I just want to choose your avenue also
YouTube subscribe to our YouTube channel so we do have YouTube channel talk about every week but
not only does it have the video version of this podcast has excerpts and deluxe excerpts
what are those excerpts that you have enhanced we'll just say enhanced steps excerpts also you know what
man I have this other idea you know what I'm gonna do I'm gonna make little we'll just say other
little videos too that's what I'm gonna do step-ad value so to speak I like that well the video is a
very compelling form of interaction with people yeah that's why that's why YouTube I think YouTube
is like the most searched website bigger than it's more searched than Google maybe I'm wrong but
it's up there it's if it's not number one it's number two so if you want to learn something people
immediately yes search YouTube yeah that's what and guess what remember the other day we talked about
YouTube red yeah I got YouTube red oh like the ads the ads is one thing but also
because you can listen to music without it being on the screen it plays in the background like
iTunes that the main reason yeah it's now I can get any album that of there's a lot of music
a lot of music that I listen to isn't on iTunes because it's old school it's hardcore it's
underground like literally not on there yeah but the YouTube videos are crazy how it's
YouTube video beyond there from some random hardcore band from New York upstate New York
and they're there there they're one album that they made they're one EP five songs long
that came out in 1987 it'll be on YouTube it's not anywhere near iTunes it's on it and you can play it
which is awesome yeah make sense I guess they YouTube read sometimes they'll put or not
sometimes all of times you have YouTube read now no because the main selling point from is that the
albums without tracks just that you like albums with tracks is your outs without tracks well
typically I don't listen to YouTube for the music situation not where I go to yeah if you have
read you'll change that yeah maybe I mean read they push it with hey no ads and then I'm like cool
no ads but man I'm not that quick to jump on the no ads thing I there have been plenty of times
right a lot of times with movies but the ads that play I like it'll be for me directed for me like
dang this ad is helping me yeah yeah yeah the ultimate YouTube person not only click the next video
I'm gonna enjoy the advertisement yeah I get the title as ads a lot you know that is right
title it's he's a super smart guy he's actually one of the reasons why like I started reading a lot
like one of the reasons and so his smart guy but his ads are all over YouTube but I know it's my fault
because it's relevant to what I watch apparently oh they do that so it's my fault but those
ads I get title this should you go to college yeah you know I'm talking about anyway yeah so yeah
subscribe to our YouTube you know got some subscribers on there some good feedback you know I'm
keep posting videos it does help that people will say echo post videos in addition to just
he's requesting peer pressure like that that's good yeah yeah so yeah subscribe to YouTube that's
good and also jocquoise a store it's called jocquoise store jocquoise store dot com on there we have t-shirts
if you wear t-shirts you know check them out if you're interested in anything on there get
something I'm not saying a buy so I'm not saying hey guys go to jocquoise store dot com and buy a t-shirt I'm
not saying that saying go to jocquoise store dot com there's some shirts on there there's some
hoodies on their rash guards patches some women stuff some tank tops and whatnot travel mugs
hats coming soon anyway check them out if you like the hats coming soon before yeah so far I've been
impressed by your turn times on that it just depends on what you think soon well you say soon to me
that that me to be me three days okay so I grew up in quiet for hats yeah care we don't know
I'm not saying it's Hawaiian time not saying that is but that's not what I'm saying right now okay so
quiet in oh my on koi you know why so on the end of oh my road is a I don't know what it is
a church or religious center or something and it says on the top it says Jesus coming soon
and that went up one I was I think seven years old so soon is a relative turn very relative
a relative yes it's a sliding scale for sure well let me tell you what hats I hope get here
before the return of Jesus yes that's the goal for sure we could make that happen to be off
nice because you got it summertime now right now it's summertime so we need hats to wear in the
sun all right to block the sun yes that's what hats do yeah got you so yeah there it is jocquoise
door dot com if you see something on there that you like you recognize the layers grab something
support here's a little thing jocco design to shirt design specifically 100% too by the way
by jocco I even tried to put my little pinky in there and I didn't even create up the night
I'm like bro do you know who manages that's your heart yeah that's it's not up it's being printed
but you know we went with it and 100% jocquoise design 100% not really approved by me I mean it's
approved but like I tried to like make my little considerations my little alterations and
alterations yeah you know I was watching out for them alterations I was worried about it
microwave it in put I believe we overcame them well totally overcame them yeah
Trump I said we're making this shirt and that's a direct order
I said it's a bit up it now you're you you've been asked it for sure but at the end of the day I
looked up and I was like dang my input on you know the store that you know I think I feel like I'm
the manager of the store apparently I'm wrong but that's cool so anyway new shirt as a result
these time by jocco jocco star dot com that's a good one also psychological warfare if you
know what that is it's an album with tracks of jocquoise voice saying and telling helping
it's what it's doing it's helping people myself included by the way through moments of weakness
if they arrive arise all right so yeah if you're having trouble or one day if you want an alarm clock
of me which people ask me for yeah just gets psychological warfare and said it is your alarm
yeah that's it that's why we made it because everyone was asking for that so there you have it you don't
need to you don't need it we're not going to make a ringtone I don't think yeah we'll tell you
technically you just said it as a ringtone and you're good yeah yeah yeah and it works really
good especially that well it depends on your weakness right or what kind of person you are so you know
me if you say a echo wake up at 430 for one year every morning one year there's going to be a
day or two where it's going to be harder than you know I don't know the day so put on the track
what time do you wake up that's classified so it's you have problems I can't predict that's
like a noon I woke up at noon on Saturday okay just on a while in time do you wake up at noon
how could you even do that bro I didn't I didn't I didn't I it was it's a long story but yes my wife
was like hey it's it was good for you to join us or nice nice of you to join us even that wife is ragging
on you for a second to noon right it to her she was just like she got to kids to take care of
you're not there sprawled out straight up the queen size bed just getting off you know
no it's bad not gonna make a change nonetheless back to psychological warfare if you have you
know if you're on a cool diet your eating is clean boom you get that temptation one day at work
the doughnuts you know they bring the doughnuts right we talk about the full of time yeah people
just do that to okay he don't gracey he run our way up our win he talks about
like how you you go to a restaurant and they're like oh so cute the kids here's some you know
here's a cupcake for the kids so cute right and people like overlook how rude and it's like
of it's how much of a violation is you can get your employees and you can feed them while you're out
yeah hey look look how cute your kids are kids let me give them something super unhealthy
violation anyway that's what happens when people bring doughnuts for work and think oh I'm gonna do this
for the office not that I frown upon them just saying put it into perspective nonetheless if someone
does that while you're at work boom you got to track with that too just put it on real quick put
on your butt you know so it's for you sugar coated lies you're coated lies directly into your
anyway it's called psychological warfare look at it on or look for it on iTunes chocolate
google play google play Amazon music all that stuff yeah like good stuff wherever the MP3s are
being distributed all right also on amazon you can get chocolate tea and here's a little verified
purchase review again this means that the person these verified yeah is a hundred percent so here's
the review as a tea guy I am somewhat picky so I ordered some chocolate tea I'm pretty sure the box
was growling when I opened it that's a verified review I brewed up some tea and poured it over ice
after which I went on my bike for training ride I was pulled over twice I explained that I had
consumed some chocolate tea before I left in the officer just nodded and said get after it
the next officer was not so forgiving and gave me a ticket for speed limit so in summary this
team can get pretty pricey if you don't mind speeding tickets while you're writing a bike so as just
another thing to be careful of if drink joccal weight tea and then you get on a bike you got to watch
out that you don't get speeding tickets because you're gonna be going a little faster than the speed limit
that's the joccal weight tea also on amazon you can get away the warrior kid and this
review here of way the warrior kid also verified purchase review from amazon this is the book I
wish I'd read when I was a kid and that's the same thing I say all the time I work in schools
and I've already bought a spare copy to lend out to my students I've also read it twice myself
though I'm 39 year old man side note my pull-ups have also improved so I'm telling you it's a kid's
book sure that's what everyone says that's you know what it's set up kind of looks like there's some
lessons in there from uncle jake that we all need so way the warrior kid you can pick that one up
also this funny cool free-em-field manual you know what this book is about it's about getting after it
mentally and physically simple straightforward so if you want to get after it get the discipline
equals freedom field manual not a lot of fluff in there I'm gonna tell you that right now not a lot
of fluff straightforward of course we got the book extreme ownership is the book we refer back to a
bunch on here combat leadership for your life for your business for your school for your family
for you own it and for your business or your team you can get us echelon front
leadership management consulting to help bring leadership at your team to the next level that is
life-bavin who wrote extreme ownership with me that is JP to now that is Dave Burke both those
guys have been on the podcast to work both with those both those guys extensively in the battle
or a mighty and myself also at echelon front so that's what we do we go in the companies
and we help you with your leadership info at echelon dot com if you're interested also the
master an Austin Texas to live 13th and 14th on the Barton Creek resort I think this might be sold
out by the time this airs it's a venue that's only 300 seats we've sold most of them if you don't
get a ticket in time for that check extreme ownership dot com see if you can still get a ticket for that one
and if you don't get a ticket in time for that one that's okay come this and yago September 14th
and 15th for mustard 004 that one is also at the omnihotel but the one in San Diego lots of folks
are coming back to that one lots of people that went to the first monster in San Diego are coming back
for another go it's gonna be awesome we will see you there and in the meantime if you want to talk
to us we are actually upon the interwebs on twitter on instagram and we gonna see that one on
defy is bookie echo is at echo Charles and i am at jokko willink and thanks to everyone for listening to the podcast
go out wake up earlier work out harder read more make yourself better a better soldier a better
sailor better airman or a better marine a better police officer a better firefighter a better
paramedic make yourself a better engineer or janitor or waitress or waiter or lawyer or doctor or
car mechanic or builder make yourself a better person a better leader every day and as Charlie
may said on July 1st 1916 before he went over the top into the raging hell that was the battle
of the song he said it is a glorious morning and it certainly is all of the mar every morning
is glorious so get out there and get after it and until next time this is echo and jokko
out